FRE6233 Option Pricing and Stochastic Calculus
 	 
Professor	Keith A. Lewis
Course	FRE-GY 6233
When	Thursday, 6pm-8:30pm
Where	Rogers Hall, Room 304 Loc: Brooklyn Campus 
Contact	kal12@nyu.edu
Phone	646-662-7113
Office hours	Thursday, 5pm-6pm, in Rm 304 or by appointment
Pre-requisite	FRE 6083
Grader	Xiao Lou <xl2434@nyu.edu>
Syllabus and course material based on notes graciously provided of Professor Agnes Tourin.


This course provides the mathematical foundations of Option Pricing models. The techniques covered include arithmetic and geometric Brownian motion, first passage 
time, the reflection principle, the stochastic Ito integral, Ito differential Calculus, change of probability measure, martingales, Stochastic Differential Equations 
and Partial Differential Equations. Some of the pricing models considered are the European, Barrier, Asian and American options. These problems are either solved 
analytically by the martingale or Partial Differential Equations approach, or numerically, by applying approximation and simulation methods. Since the same techniques 
allow the treatment of more complex financial products, several advanced examples will be also presented.


Course Objectives
After taking this course, the students will be able to price any derivative security. This is a first course in Mathematical Finance and is a building block for 
more advanced courses. The material taught is part of the common knowledge shared by quants in the Financial industry and taking this course will prepare the 
students to apply for quantitative positions. This course also prepares the students who wish to apply to a Ph.D. program in Financial Engineering, Mathematical 
Finance, Operations Research, or Finance.


Additional Resources (optional)
A Primer for the Mathematics of Financial Engineering, Dan Stefanica, Second Edition, 2011, FE Press New York.
Monte Carlo Methods in Financial Engineering, Paul Glasserman, 2004, Springer.
Financial Modelling with Jump Processes, Rama Cont and Peter Tankov, 2004, Chapman & Hall/CRC.
Computational Methods in Finance, Ali Hirsa, 2013, Chapman & Hall/CRC.
Introduction to Mathematical Finance, Discrete Time Models, Stanley R. Pliska, 1997, Blackwell Publishing.
Stochastic Differential Equations: An introduction with Applications, Bernt Oksendal, Universitext, Third Printing, Sixth Edition, 2009, Springer.
Probability Essentials, Jean Jacod and Philip Protter, Universitext, Second Printing, Second Edition, 2004, Springer.
Numerical Partial Differential Equations: Finite Difference Methods, J.W. Thomas, Texts in Applied Mathematics, 22, 1995, Springer.


Recommended software for the homework:
Students are expected to be familiar with a programming language such as Python, Matlab, or R. We will use a simple subset of modern C++ to create Excel add-ins.


Course requirements:
Students are expected to attend classes and participate actively. They should view read the textbooks ahead of time and come prepared to ask questions and discuss 
the weekly assignment.There will be weekly homework assignments and an in class final examination. Each counts for 50% of the final grade. Homework is due at the 
beginning of each class. No late homework will be accepted. The lowest homework grade will be discarded.There will be two types of homework assignments. The first 
type will consist of practice exercises designed to help the students assimilate the techniques taught in class and prepare them for the final. The second type will 
consist of implementing numerical and simulation techniques, to compute option prices that cannot be computed analytically.


Week 1. Review of Prerequisites
Week 2. Stochastic Calculus and Partial Differential Equations
Week 3. Fundamental Theorem of Asset Pricing
Week 4. Black-Scholes/Merton Option Pricing
Week 5. General Option Pricing
Week 6. Monte Carlo Pricing
Week 7. Software implementation.
Week 8: Asian Options.
Week 9. American option pricing
Week 10. Bootstrap
Week 11. Multidimensional market models:
Week 12. Variance Swaps
Week 13. Review





